Information Security/CybersecurityFramework.md, before:

# Fundementals of Cybersecurity Framework

## NICE Framework
[NICE](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/cyber-security-workforce-framework) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework is created by [National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/blogs/cybersecurity-insights/discovering-careers-cybersecurity). It has resources that provide common language to describe and define cybersecurity work regardless or organization type. NICE identifies seven high-level categories of common cybersecurity functions.
- Analyze
- Collect and Operate
- Investigate 
- Operate and Maintain
- Oversee and Govern
- Protect and Defend
- Securely Provision

### Analyze
| Specialty | Description | Example | 
| --- | --- | --- |
| All-Source Analysis | Analyzing threat information from diverse sources, disciplines, and agencies | Synthesizing and placing intelligence information in context, drawing insights on possible implications |
| Exploitation Analysis | Analyzing collected information to identify vulnerabilities | n/a |
| Language Analysis | Use language, culture, and technical knowledge to support cybersecurities activities | n/a |
| Targets | Apply knowledge on domain that is non-state entities and/or technologies | n/a |
| Threat Analysis | Assess the skills and activities of criminals or forein intelligence | Support law enforcement or investigations |

### Investigate
| Specialty | Description |
| Cyber Investigation | Use tactics, techniques, and procedures to investigate | interview, interrogation, surveillance, intelligence gathering |
| Digital Forensics | Collect and analyze, computer-related evidence to prevent criminal activties |

### Operate and Maintain

Commit message:

added analyze and investigate job roles

Information Security/CybersecurityFramework.md, after:

# Fundementals of Cybersecurity Framework

## NICE Framework
[NICE](https://niccs.cisa.gov/workforce-development/cyber-security-workforce-framework) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework is created by [National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/blogs/cybersecurity-insights/discovering-careers-cybersecurity). It has resources that provide common language to describe and define cybersecurity work regardless or organization type. NICE identifies seven high-level categories of common cybersecurity functions.
- Analyze
- Collect and Operate
- Investigate 
- Operate and Maintain
- Oversee and Govern
- Protect and Defend
- Securely Provision

[MITRE ATT&CK](attack.mitre.org) is a resource that provides information about adversaries, tactics and techniques, software, and mitigration to deploy.

## Analyze and Investigate
| Specialty | Description | Example | 
| --- | --- | --- |
| All-Source Analysis | Analyzing threat information from diverse sources, disciplines, and agencies | Synthesizing and placing intelligence information in context, drawing insights on possible implications |
| Exploitation Analysis | Analyzing collected information to identify vulnerabilities | n/a |
| Language Analysis | Use language, culture, and technical knowledge to support cybersecurities activities | n/a |
| Targets | Apply knowledge on domain that is non-state entities and/or technologies | n/a |
| Threat Analysis | Assess the skills and activities of criminals or forein intelligence | Support law enforcement or investigations |

### Investigate
| Specialty | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Cyber Investigation | Use tactics, techniques, and procedures to investigate | interview, interrogation, surveillance, intelligence gathering |
| Digital Forensics | Collect and analyze, computer-related evidence to prevent criminal activties |

### Job Roles
| Role | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Threat Intelligence Analyst | Develops cyber indicators to maintain awareness of the status of the highly dynamic environment |
| Exploitation Analyst | Identify access and collection gaps that can be satisfied through cyber collection and/or activities |
| All Source Analyst | Analyzes data/information from one or multiple sources to conduct preparation and respond |
| Mission Assessment Specialist | Develops assessment plans and measures performance and effectiveness | 
| Target Developer | Performs target system analysis |
| Target Analyst | Conduts advance analysis of collection and open-source data to continously profile the target |
| Language Analyst | Applies language and culture expertise with target/threat and technical knowledge to process and analyze | 
| Cybercrime Investigator | identifies, collects, examines, and preserves evidence using analytical techniques |
| Cybercrime Forensics Analyst | conducts deep-dive investigations on computer-based crimes | 
| Cyber Defense Forensics Analyst | analyzes digital evidence and investigates computer security |

**Key Soft Skils**: Problem solving, critical thinking, analytical thinking, decision-making, willingness to learn, and effective technical communication.


### Operate and Maintain
